feat(devx): Split and Edit full node guide (#4182)
iotaledger/iota: docker/fullnode/README.md

# Use Docker to Run an IOTA Full Node Locally

> Use this guide to install and configure an IOTA Full Node locally using Docker for testing. These instructions are valid for the following operating system and processor combinations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this guide to install and configure an IOTA Full Node locally using Docker for testing. The instructions apply to the following operating system and processor combinations:
```

- Linux/AMD64
- Darwin/AMD64
- Darwin/ARM64

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following:

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) installed.
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed.
- Download the full node [docker-compose.yaml](https://github.com/iotaledger/iota/blob/develop/docker/fullnode/docker-compose.yaml) file.

## Configure the IOTA Full Node

Download the latest version of the IOTA Full Node configuration file [fullnode-template.yaml](https://github.com/iotaledger/iota/raw/develop/crates/iota-config/data/fullnode-template.yaml). You can use the following command to download the file:

```shell
wget https://github.com/iotaledger/iota/raw/develop/crates/iota-config/data/fullnode-template.yaml
```

### Add Peers

For `Testnet` or `Devnet` nodes, edit the `fullnode.yaml` file to include peer nodes for state synchronization. Append
the following to the end of the current configuration:

#### Devnet

```yaml
p2p-config:
    seed-peers:
    - address: /dns/access-0.r.testnet.iota.cafe/udp/8084
        peer-id: 46064108d0b689ed89d1f44153e532bb101ce8f8ca3a3d01ab991d4dea122cfc

>     - address: /dns/access-1.r.testnet.iota.cafe/udp/8084

Reviewer 2: Testnet peers in Devnet section. :eyes:

        peer-id: 8ffd25fa4e86c30c3f8da7092695e8a103462d7a213b815d77d6da7f0a2a52f5
```

> #### Tesnet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Testnet
```

```yaml
p2p-config:
    seed-peers:
    - address: /dns/access-0.r.devnet.iota.cafe/udp/8084
        peer-id: 01589ac910a5993f80fbc34a6e0c8b2041ddc5526a951c838df3037e11ab0188
    - address: /dns/access-1.r.devnet.iota.cafe/udp/8084

>         peer-id: 32875c547ea3b44fa08a711646cedb70fa0c97959d236578131505da09723add

Reviewer 2: Devnet peers in Testnet section.

```

### Download the IOTA Genesis Blob

The genesis blob defines the IOTA network configuration. Before starting the Full Node, download the latest `genesis.blob` file to ensure compatibility with your version of IOTA.

- [Testnet genesis blob](https://dbfiles.testnet.iota.cafe/genesis.blob):
  `curl -fLJO https://dbfiles.testnet.iota.cafe/genesis.blob`
- [Devnet genesis blob](https://dbfiles.devnet.iota.cafe/genesis.blob):
  `curl -fLJO https://dbfiles.devnet.iota.cafe/genesis.blob`
- [Devnet migration blob](https://dbfiles.devnet.iota.cafe/migration.blob):
  `curl -fLJO https://dbfiles.devnet.iota.cafe/migration.blob`

> - [Mainnet genesis blob](https://github.com/iotaledger/iota/TODO):

Reviewer: Can we remove the Mainnet links and add a note that mainnet is not yet up, and a TODO as an invisible comment perhaps?

## Stop the Full Node

Run the following command to stop the Full Node when you finish using it:

```shell
docker compose stop
```

## Test the IOTA Full Node

After the Full Node starts, you can test the [JSON-RPC interfaces](https://docs.iota.org/iota-api-ref).

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter errors or your Full Node stops working, run the commands in the following section to resolve the issue.

### Start the Full Node in Detached Mode

First, try starting the Full Node in detached mode:

```shell
docker compose up -d
```

### Reset the Environment

If you continue to see issues, stop the Full Node (`docker compose stop`) and delete the Docker container and volume. Then run the following command to start a new instance of the Full Node using the same genesis blob:

```shell
docker compose down --volumes
```

## Monitoring

### View Activity on Your Local Full Node with IOTA Explorer

The IOTA Explorer supports connecting to any network as long as it has `https` enabled. To view activity on your local

> Full Node, open the URL: [hhttps://explorer.rebased.iota.org/](https://explorer.rebased.iota.org/), and select Custom

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Full Node, open the URL: [https://explorer.rebased.iota.org/](https://explorer.rebased.iota.org/), and select Custom
```
